Translator & LanguageDetector APIs shipped w/ Edge 148 (#3815)
MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer: microsoft-edge/web-platform/languagedetector-api.md

ms.author: msedgedevrel
ms.topic: article
ms.service: microsoft-edge
ms.date: 05/29/2026
---
# Detect languages with the Language Detector API

> The Language Detector API is a web API that allows you to detect the language of text by using a model that's built into Microsoft Edge, from JavaScript code in your website or browser extension.

Reviewer: The Language Detector API allows you to detect the language of text from JavaScript code in your website or browser extension. The API uses a task-specific model that is built into Microsoft Edge.

Author: ```suggestion
The Language Detector API allows you to detect the language of text from JavaScript code in your website or browser extension. The API uses a task-specific model that is built into Microsoft Edge.
```

The Language Detector API is an experimental web API that allows you to detect the language of text by using a model that's built into Microsoft Edge, from JavaScript code in your website or browser extension.
The Language Detector API is a web API that allows you to detect the language of text by using a model that's built into Microsoft Edge, from JavaScript code in your website or browser extension.

**Detailed contents:**

* [Introduction](#introduction)
* [Use the Language Detector API with the Translator API](#use-the-language-detector-api-with-the-translator-api)

> * [Availability of the Language Detector API](#availability-of-the-language-detector-api)

Reviewer: Should we mention that it is available in Edge 148 or higher?

Author: Since 148 is now stable, I don't think we need to. Unless you think otherwise. We typically do this for upcoming versions, not past/current ones.

Reviewer: in that case, is this in the 148 release notes?

Reviewer 2: below, per other PR Comment, added 148:
```
1. In Microsoft Edge 148 or higher, go to the [Language Detector API playground](https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/built-in-ai/playgrounds/languagedetector-api/) in a new window or tab.
```
@captainbrosset

An initial download of the model is required the first time a website calls the Language Detector API.  You can monitor the model download by using the monitor option when creating a new Language Detector API session; see [Monitor the progress of the model download (monitor)](#monitor-the-progress-of-the-model-download-monitor), below.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## See a working example

To see the Language Detector API in action, and view existing code that uses this API:

> 1. In Microsoft Edge, go to the [Language Detector API playground](https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/built-in-ai/playgrounds/languagedetector-api/) in a new window or tab.

Reviewer: Edge 148 or higher,

Reviewer 2: ```
1. In Microsoft Edge 148 or higher, go to the [Language Detector API playground](https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/built-in-ai/playgrounds/languagedetector-api/) in a new window or tab.
```
